>> Brian Holt: Let's get into
the next part of our course here,
which is the features of Docker.
We're gonna go through kind of what
I would deem to be the more essential
parts of like what Docker is doing
on top of containers for you.
So none of these in and of themselves
are directly containers, but they're like,
how do we give files to To a container.
How do we network with these containers?
How do we use these containers for
development?
Those kind of features.
Yeah, I'll just go ahead and say that at
this point, you basically know as much as
you pretty much ever have to know
about containers as of today, right?
We'll talk about features that go on
top of containers at this point, but
containers don't really get much more
complicated than what we talk about.
You'll look at some Docker files and
see that there are a 100 lines and
stuff like that.
And they have branching logic and
a bunch of stuff like that.
And you can have Docker file templates
if you have to generate ten different
containers based on one kind of manifest.
That's all stuff that I know exists,
but I've never personally had to do and
I can imagine unless you are maintaining
like open source containers that you
will have to do either.
But at this point you're armed with all
the knowledge that you could definitely go
figure it out that they're not so
much more complicated than
what we've shown you already.
Okay, so,
bind mounts right now been kind of just
self containing our containers, right?
We've basically just saying all everything
that we care about in this container gets
kind of put inside of it.
And then when the container goes away,
everything goes with it.
The baby also goes with the bathwater,
proverbially speaking.
That's not always what you want, right?
Sometimes you want data to stick around.
A good example of that
would be a database, right?
If I tear down my database container,
I don't wanna lose all of the data, right?
That's kind of makes sense.
We're gonna talk about volumes
here in a second that handle that.
But for now,
we're gonna talk about bind mounts,
which are a little bit different and
people get confused about the difference
between bind mounts and volumes.
I'm gonna try and
explain it several times to you.
And if you still don't get it,
please stop me because it's important that
you understand the difference
between a bind mount and a volume.
We talked about here that we don't
wanna have snowflake servers, right?
Where we don't wanna basically go and
very handcart our servers.
We wanna have cattle servers so
we can tear down and pull up.
So how do we have a container that is
a cattle server that we can basically use
and reuse and destroy and recreate, but
we wanna use something
locally on our computer?
Like a good example, this is like I'm
doing my development process on my
computer, and I don't have to rebuild
the container every single time, right?
I don't wanna have that high touch kind
of relationship with this container.
That's what a bind mount
is gonna allow you to do.
It's gonna allow you to say like, hey,
these files exist on my local computer and
I wanna use those there, but
I wanna run that through a container.
So if I'm running like my, let's say
my NodeJS server, and I wanna run it in
a Linux environment, and I wanna do active
development on it while it's running.
This is where a bind mount is really cool.
It's basically like a portal to your
local computer that you can do all
your stuff there and it's translated
directly into your container.
You don't have to rebuild your
container every single time.
So this allows them to be essentially
stateful without being annoying,
essentially, right.
So let's talk about more
about these bind mounts and
everything that I've explained so
far is a bind mount.
Another really good example of this is
like let's say you are running your Astro
project locally, and you just want to
like serve it through nginx really quick
to just to make sure that
everything is working.
So you can actually do
that today with this.
Let's go actually go and
make that work, so
let's go into I think I'm in,
I'm on my desktop.
That's where I put it.
Static asset project.
So we have this, we've built it before.
That's what that dis folder is.
You can just do npm run build.
I'm not gonna do that again,
but go into dist and
then I'm just gonna copy and paste.
Actually not from the dist directory.
So just directly from
the project directory here.
And I'm gonna copy and paste all of that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
that's fine I don't care.
>> Brian Holt: So
now in theory if I go to local 8080,
>> Brian Holt: You can see
this is actually serving from NGINX.
>> Brian Holt: I think it should
even say it on my, if I inspect it,
network,
>> Brian Holt: Maybe, it might say it.
No, that's request headers, yeah,
right there, server, nginx.
Kind of cool, right?
So let's talk about we actually ran here.
So docker run, you got that.
And then you understand this part here.
No, not that part yet.
But this part, the port, and we understand
that we ran it for from Nginx latest.
Let's talk about this part right there.
So we're gonna do a bind mount.
That's what the --mount.
We told that the type of mount is bind
as you might imagine there are others.
And then the source, you have to
give it a fully qualified directory.
That's what that PWD is here.
So we're seeing from
the present working directory,
you can also just give it
the full absolute path.
I just didn't wanna figure that out.
And I said from dist, which is a folder
that we were just talking about.
And then the target going to be inside
of that directory that we put all
the files in previously in
the static asset project, right?
So therefore, we just ran Nginx directly
from our command line using docker,
using a bind mount to just serve
everything from dist, kind of cool, right?
I think it's really cool to have
the ability to just spin up nginx really
quickly, do a bunch of stuff with it and
then spin it down.
Now you might say Brian there's a trillion
ways to serve Static assets on my local
computer I can do it with Python.
I can do with PHP was a -s or
stuff like that I can do it
with Serve which is something from
Vercel. Totally.
100% I probably would do like serve or
something like that because it's I can
just do NPX serve and that works as well.
Why I would actually want to do this If I
was testing out configurations with nginx,
because you can also bind mount
the configuration file in there, right?
And you can try a bunch of
different things to try and
see if you can get your
configuration correctly.
Because messing with nginx configuration
is scary in my opinion, right?
So at the end of the day,
yeah, you can do npx, serve,
but this is almost as easy, right?
Which I think is pretty cool, okay?
Little note there if you're not seeing it,
you just have to make sure
that you build the project.
So you have to do the npm install and run
build if you haven't done that already.
Little note there if
you're having some issues.
>> Brian Holt: So, yeah, we'll
talk about volume here in a second, but
right now we're talking about bind.
Talk about that.
That's kind of the whole gist
of what a bind mount is.
I'm not gonna really show you too much
more because there's not really a lot
more to it.
One thing that you do want to be careful
of, like here's a really good example.
Let's say we're bind mounting our
entire dev project into a container so
that we can do container development.
There's things that I'm gonna show you
here in a little bit that just kind of
handle that tool chain for you.
But let's say you were
doing it by yourself.
Let's say you ran npm
install locally on Mac OS and
then you bind mounted that into Linux.
You potentially have a mismatch of
native dependencies because if you
npm install on Mac, it's gonna
install your dependencies for Mac.
And then if you bind mount that into
Linux, Linux and be like, this is for Mac,
I don't know what to do with this, right?
So if you're gonna do that,
make sure that you're running your
npm install inside of the container.
Which is annoying because now every
time that you start your container,
you do have to run npm install again.
Or have some black magic where you install
your local dependencies for Linux.
Just sounds like a terrible idea to me.
So anyway, that's something to keep in
mind is that you're now kind of like
traversing between worlds and you have
to make sure that you are ready for
whatever operating system
you're gonna be in.
So, bind mounts, I think are pretty clear.
It's for when you wanna share local
state from your host operating system
to containers, right?
I think that tracks.
As you might imagine, anything that you
save in your bind mount will be saved
to your local computer as well, right?
So that it can work both ways.